Mars has sold over 150 million records worldwide and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time. He has scored nine Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles. His 24K Magic World Tour (2017–2018) ranks among the highest-grossing tours in history. Mars' accolades include 16 Grammy Awards (including 3 Records of the Year and 2 Songs of the Year), 4 Brit Awards, 14 American Music Awards, 13 Soul Train Awards and 8 Guinness World Records. He has been featured on Music Week's best-songwriters (2011) and Billboard's Greatest of All Time Artists (2019) lists, as well as the Time 100 and Forbes Celebrity 100 lists. Mars was the first artist with six RIAA diamond-certified songs and the first artist to surpass 150 million monthly listeners on Spotify.


== Life and career ==


=== 1985–2003: Early life and musical beginnings ===
Peter Gene Hernandez was born on October 8, 1985, in Honolulu, Hawaii, to Peter Hernandez and Bernadette San Pedro Bayot. He grew up in the Waikiki neighborhood of Honolulu. His father has Puerto Rican and Jewish heritage and is from Brooklyn, New York. Mars has said that his Jewish ancestors were from Hungary and Ukraine. His mother emigrated from the Philippines to Hawaii, and had Filipino and Spanish ancestry. Mars' parents met while performing in a show in which his mother was a hula dancer and his father was a percussionist. At age two, he was nicknamed "Bruno" by his father because of his resemblance to professional wrestler Bruno Sammartino.
Mars is one of six children and came from a musical family who exposed him to a diverse mix of musical genres, including rock and roll, reggae, hip hop, and rhythm and blues. His mother was a singer and a dancer and his father performed Little Richard's music, which inspired him as a young child. His uncle, an Elvis impersonator, encouraged the three-year-old Mars to perform songs by Presley and Michael Jackson. Mars began performing five days a week with his family's band (the Love Notes) at age four, and became known in Hawaii for his onstage impersonation of Elvis Presley.