Limited-edition merchandise and themed food and drink was available at Park MGM's Hello Kitty Cafe, and a Hello Kitty meet-and-greet was held that month. On June 2025, Regal and Stetson released a new cowboy hat, the "Regal 10X Straw".


=== Philanthropy ===
In 2014, it was announced that Mars had partnered with the Hawai'i Community Foundation and the Grammy Foundation to establish a Grammy Camp Scholarship Fund for qualified needs-based applicants from Hawaii. On September 27, 2017, he expanded his camp scholarship to applicants from throughout the United States. Mars established the partnership in honor of his mother.
Mars donated $100,000 in 2014 to the orphans of Bantay Bata, who were among the victims of Typhoon Haiyan. He performed at the Make It Right concert (whose goal was to "help build homes for people in need") and at the Robin Hood Foundation's 2014 annual benefit to "fight poverty in New York City by supporting nonprofit organizations." In 2017, Mars and Live Nation donated one million dollars from the show at Auburn Hills, Michigan's Palace to help victims of the Flint water crisis. Mars participated in the "Somos Una Voz" relief initiative to help survivors of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, and Mexico's earthquake.
He donated 24,000 meals in 2018 to the Salvation Army Hawaiian & Pacific Islands Division's 48th annual Thanksgiving Dinner. In 2020, Mars donated $1 million to the MGM Resorts Foundation to assist MGM employees in financial difficulty due to the COVID-19 pandemic. That year, Mars and other artists donated autographed microphones to music-gear marketplace Reverb.com for sale "with all proceeds going to ten youth music education programs" affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. He created a protest sign with an Angela Davis quote for the Show Me the Signs auction to help families of black women killed by police.
Until the end of 2021, Mars donated all profits from SelvaRey Rum to Honolulu Community College's Music & Entertainment Learning Experience. That year he was part of the Keep Memory Alive Power of Love event, whose proceeds support services, care, and resources to patients with neurocognitive diseases and their caregivers.