In fact, this ability of Luna-P's is anime-only. Sailor Pluto refers to Chibiusa as "Small Lady." Chibiusa usually calls Sailor Pluto by the nickname "Puu". She acts as Chibiusa's guardian in the anime, but is more of a friend in the manga and Crystal and her deference to the future queen is apparent. She is also very good friends with Diana, which makes sense considering Diana is to Luna and Artemis what Chibiusa is to Usagi and Mamoru, and occasionally trusts her to watch the Door of Space-Time. Overall, Pluto in the manga seems to be good with children, which is probably why she ends up working as a nurse at Chibiusa's school in the fifth arc. She also mentors Ami/Sailor Mercury in the fourth arc, allowing her to power up to her Super form.

After the events of the second story arc, she leaves the gates of time to temporarily live as a normal human, joins Sailors Uranus and Neptune, and becomes a university student studying physics. At this point, she gains the civilian identity "Setsuna Meioh" where previously it seems Pluto had none, unique among the ten main Solar System Guardians. The exact nature of how she leaves her post differs between versions: in the manga and Crystal, she is reincarnated in the present-day by Neo-Queen Serenity after sacrificing herself during the second arc while for unknown reasons she still appears in the future in the fifth arc; and the anime gives no explicit reason for her appearing in the third season, she just shows up with a previously unmentioned civilian form with no apparent consequences. This is most likely due to Pluto's sacrifice not happening in R and the Infinity arc requiring her presence. Neo-Queen Serenity was also never established as having the ability to reincarnate people in the anime. The identity of who set Pluto at the time door and gave her the taboos and when this might have happened are also never stated in the anime.
Even in her civilian form, Setsuna is the oldest of the girls, around her late teens or older. Her personality has been described as distant and somewhat lonely; however, she does consistently display warmth and affection for Chibiusa.