They also revealed the Game Boy Micro: a smaller version of the GBA with a brighter screen, and a faceplate which could be easily detached and replaced with a different design. The Micro was announced for release that fall.In September 2005, at the Tokyo Game Show, Nintendo revealed the design for the Revolution's controller, later named the Wii Remote, which was shaped like a TV remote and could be controlled alongside an attachable joystick; the latter device was later named the Wii Nunchuck. The controller can be held vertically like a TV remote, or horizontally like a traditional gaming controller. Nintendo said that they intended it to be understood by both traditional and casual gamers, and with its internal gyroscope, to be used for motion control within games. Tony Smith wrote for the The Register that the controller seemed to represent Nintendo moving away from competing with Sony and Microsoft, whose consoles "are likely to be pitched heavily toward hard-core gamers."
In January 2006, Nintendo announced a new version of the DS which had been in development since the handheld's launch, the Nintendo DS Lite. It was two-thirds smaller and 20% lighter than the original system, with a brighter screen. The brightness could be adjusted to one of four different levels. The DS Lite released in Japan in March 2006, and in North America and Europe in June.
In April 2006, Nintendo announced that the Revolution would release as the "Wii". The name, like the rest of the console, was intended to appeal to casual audiences, and it initially was highly controversial among Nintendo's fans. Lucas Thomas later wrote for IGN: "Nintendo smartly let the name be known months before [E3], anticipating that the oddity of it would ignite a firestorm of controversy" [...] "the name would have overshadowed everything else about the system at the show."

In May 2006, at E3, Nintendo announced that the Wii would release by the end of the year, and revealed multiple games they would publish for it that use motion controls, including Excite Truck (2006), Wii Sports (2006), and Super Mario Galaxy (2007). Lucas Thomas wrote that these games' E3 demos showcased "effortless" and "crucially different" implementations of motion control, which helped assuage the gaming community's skepticism towards the "shocking and surprising" concept behind the Wii.