Le Prieur rockets were sometimes attached to the struts of biplanes and fired electrically, usually against observation balloons, by such early pilots as Albert Ball and A. M. Walters. Facing the Allied air superiority, Germany in World War II invested limited effort into missile research, initially adapting the projectile of the unguided 21 cm Nebelwerfer 42 infantry barrage rocket system into the air-launched BR 21 anti-aircraft rocket in 1943; leading to the deployment of the R4M unguided rocket and the development of various guided missile prototypes such as the Ruhrstahl X-4.
The US Navy and US Air Force began equipping guided missiles in 1956, deploying the USAF's AIM-4 Falcon and the USN's AIM-7 Sparrow and AIM-9 Sidewinder. Post-war research led the Royal Air Force to introduce Fairey Fireflash into service in 1957 but their results were unsuccessful.  The Soviet Air Force introduced its K-5 into service in 1957. The first-ever successful combat deployment and shoot-down of an adversary aircraft happened during the 1958 Kinmen (Quemoy) Crisis, when RoCAF F-86 Sabres shot down at least one Soviet-made PLAAF MiG-17 using U.S.-supplied AIM-9 Sidewinder AAMs; the PLAAF fortuitously recovered a largely-intact AIM-9 Sidewinder that hit and got lodged into one of their MiG-17s, but did not explode, and reportedly turned over to the Soviets for reverse-engineering into the K-13 AAM.
As missile systems have continued to advance, modern air warfare consists almost entirely of missile firing.  The use of beyond-visual-range combat became so pervasive in the US that early F-4 variants were armed only with missiles in the 1960s. High casualty rates during the Vietnam War caused the US to reintroduce autocannon and traditional dogfighting tactics but the missile remains the primary weapon in air combat.
In the Falklands War British Harriers, using AIM-9L missiles were able to defeat faster Argentinian opponents.  Since the late 20th century all-aspect heat-seeking designs can lock-on to a target from various angles, not just from behind, where the heat signature from the engines is strongest. Other types rely on radar guidance (either on-board or "painted" by the launching aircraft).