Following the implementation of firmware version 5.0.0, several Switch users began reporting that their consoles became unusable after having been docked within a third-party "portable" dock manufactured by Nyko. Nyko commented on the issue, stating that they were aware of the issue and thought it to be caused by the Switch's handling of A/V output, while Nintendo advised users against docking their systems inside unlicensed docking peripherals. After purchasing the dock at a Walmart store in Jacksonville, Florida, and losing usability of his console upon using the dock, Switch owner Michael Skiathitis filed a class action lawsuit against Nyko, alleging the dock to be "prone to causing numerous problems to the devices they are intended to support" against the knowledge of purchasers, as well as noting that Nyko had not put much effort into warning consumers about the issue. Other Switch owners reported having their consoles bricked upon using various other third-party docks, including models made by FastSnail and Insignia.
The Verge rated the Nintendo Switch Lite 8 out of 10 points, praising its improved battery life over the standard Nintendo Switch, as well as the design and the D-pad, but criticizing the lack of a TV mode and the fact that some games are not compatible with the base model alone. PC Magazine criticized the components used in the Switch Lite for their quality because just like the Joy-Con of the original Nintendo Switch, the analog sticks of the console are also susceptible to drifting. "Today's generation is focused more on hand-held devices and any app that is on their television screen", said game developer Tyrone Evans Clark who was being interviewed by Lifewire. Jon Porter of TechRadar wrote, "The Switch is a significantly different device from what we've seen prior, and the handheld nature of the console provides the best of both worlds." In 2021, PCMag wrote, "As a handheld game system, the Switch feels large but comfortable. It's thicker than a tablet but much thinner than the Wii U gamepad, and far more natural to hold. It's 9.4 inches wide with both Joy-Con attached, making it too cumbersome to easily put in a pocket, but it can fit in most bags without a problem. I bring my Switch with me to work every day on the subway. It fits comfortably in my bag when I'm not playing it, and doesn't feel overwhelmingly bulky when I play it while standing."