He abandoned the operation when the timer on the explosive was due to go off, and he feared getting caught at dawn. A popular story held that he failed due to the copper lining covering the ship's hull. The Royal Navy had recently begun installing copper sheathing on the bottoms of their warships to protect from damage by shipworms and other marine life; however, the lining was paper-thin and could not have stopped Lee from drilling through it. Bushnell believed that Lee's failure was probably due to an iron plate connected to the ship's rudder hinge.  Lee attempted another spot on the hull, but he was unable to stay beneath the ship and eventually abandoned the attempt. 
Lee reported that British soldiers on Governors Island spotted the submersible and rowed out to investigate.  He then released the charge (called a torpedo), "expecting that they would seize that likewise, and thus all would be blown to atoms." The British were suspicious of the drifting torpedo and retreated back to the island.  Lee reported that the charge drifted into the East River, where it exploded "with tremendous violence, throwing large columns of water and pieces of wood that composed it high into the air."  It was the first use of a submarine to attack a ship, but the only records documenting it are American. British records contain no accounts of an attack by a submarine or any reports of explosions on the night of the attack on Eagle.
British naval historian Richard Compton-Hall has questioned whether these events even occurred. He claims that the problems of achieving neutral buoyancy would have rendered the vertical propeller useless. The route that Turtle would have taken to attack Eagle was slightly across the tidal stream which would have likely resulted in Lee becoming exhausted.  In the face of these and other problems, Compton-Hall suggests that the entire story was fabricated as disinformation and morale-boosting propaganda, and if Lee did carry out an attack it was in a covered rowing boat rather than Turtle.
Despite Turtle's failure, Washington called Bushnell "a Man of great Mechanical Powers, fertile of invention and a master in execution." In retrospect, Washington observed in a letter to Thomas Jefferson: "[Bushnell] came to me in 1776 recommended by Governor Trumbull (now dead) and other respectable characters… Although I wanted faith myself, I furnished him with money, and other aids to carry it into execution.