The inclusion of DVD playback was a major factor in the commercial success of the PlayStation 2. At launch, the PS2 was priced comparably to standalone DVD players, making it an attractive option for consumers. This multifunctionality also the increased console's appeal beyond traditional gamers and accelerate DVD adoption in households.
There was, however, some concern about the system's abilities following the lack of anti-aliasing in the two most popular early titles, Ridge Racer V (2000) and Tekken Tag Tournament (2000). It was exacerbated for a period of time post-launch amid concerns about the relative lack of new quality software. This situation was eventually turned around following a spate of big and highly acclaimed games in the final quarter of 2001. Later reviews, especially after the launch of the competing GameCube and Xbox systems, continued to praise the PlayStation 2's large game library and DVD playback, while routinely criticising the PlayStation 2's lesser graphics performance compared to the newer systems and its rudimentary online service compared to Xbox Live. In 2002, CNET rated the console 7.3 out of 10, calling it a "safe bet" despite not being the "newest or most powerful", noting that the console "yields in-game graphics with more jagged edges". CNET also criticised the DVD playback functionality, claiming that the console's video quality was "passable" and that the playback controls were "rudimentary", recommending users to purchase a remote control. The console's two controller ports and the high cost of its memory cards were also a point of criticism.
The slim model of the PlayStation 2 received positive reviews for its small size and built-in networking, but received criticism for easily overheating due to the exclusion of the original model's built-in fan. The requirement for a separate power adapter was criticised while the top-loading disc drive was noted as being less likely to break compared to the tray-loading drive of the original model.